# Randomized Algorithms for Finding the Minimum Dominating Set of a Graph

Project realized by Rodrigo Abreu, number 113626, for the curricular unit Algoritmos Avançados of Mestrado de Engenharia Informática in Universidade de Aveiro.

## Structure

- *graphs* folder has the graphs generated by the *mds.py* script to be used for the algorithms execution.
- *images* folder with images used for the report.
- *results_unified* folder has the *mds_analysis.py* script results (plots, tables, etc) for critical analysis.
- *visualizations* folder with all images of the mds problem solved by different algorithms.
- *AA_2526_Trab_1.pdf* is the file containing the project guidelines.
- *AA_Trabalho_2_113626.pdf* is the file containing project report.
- *mds_analysis.py* file has the code for tables and plots generation based on the *mds.py* results.
- *mds.py* is the file containing the code for the graph generation, algorithms and tests execution.

## How to run
1. Make sure you have python installed.

1. Create a virtual environment
```bash
python3 -m venv venv
``` 

3. Enter the virtual environment
```bash
source venv/bin/activate
```

4. Install the necessary dependencies.
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

5. Run graph generation and algorithm execution script.
```bash
python3 mds.py
```

6. Run analysis and visulization script.
```bash
python3 mds_analysis.py
```

7. You may check terminal script execution output and results_unified folder in order to check the analysis.

8. Complement this with reading the report in order to understand the study and the analysis better: [AA_Trabalho2_113626.pdf](AA_Trabalho2_113626.pdf)