# Exhaustive Search & Greedy Heuristic Algorithms for Finding the Minimum Dominating Set of a Graph

Project realized by Rodrigo Abreu, number 113626, for the curricular unit Algoritmos Avançados of Mestrado de Engenharia Informática in Universidade de Aveiro.

## Structure

- *graphs* folder has the graphs generated by the *minimum_dominating_set.py* script to be used for the algorithms execution.
- *images* folder with images used for the report.
- *results* folder has the *analysis_and_visualization.py* script results (plots, tables, etc) for critical analysis.
- *visualizations* folder with all images of the graphs generated.
- *AA_2526_Trab_1.pdf* is the file containing the project guidelines.
- *AA_Trabalho_1_113626.pdf* is the file containing project report.
- *analysis_and_visualization.py* file has the code for tables and plots generation based on the *minimum_dominating_set.py* results.
- *minimum_dominating_set.py* is the file containing the code for the graph generation, algorithms and tests execution.

## How to run
1. Make sure you have python installed.

1. Create a virtual environment
```bash
python3 -m venv venv
``` 

3. Enter the virtual environment
```bash
source venv/bin/activate
```

4. Install the necessary dependencies.
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

5. Run graph generation and algorithm execution script.
```bash
python3 minimum_dominating_set.py
```

6. Run analysis and visulization script.
```bash
python3 analysis_and_visualization.py
```

7. You make check terminal script execution output and results folder in order to check the analysis.

8. Complement this with reading the report in order to understand the study and the analysis better: [AA_Trabalho_1_113626.pdf](AA_Trabalho_1_113626.pdf)